#summary Editing cells.

==Editing One Cell at A Time==

To edit a cell, hover your mouse over that cell. You should see a tiny blue button labeled "edit". Click it to edit the cell. That pops up a window with a bigger text field for you to edit.

When done, click "Apply" or press Enter. That changes that one cell. On the other hand, if you click "Apply to All Identical Cells" or press Ctrl-Enter, then for all cells in that column that contain the same text (to that cell) originally, they will all be replaced with the new value that you just entered. It's essentially a Find & Replace operation.

You could set the data type of the cell in the popup. For dates, we support [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601 ISO 8601] as well as more readable strings, such as "today" and "yesterday". Readable strings can be whatever that the library [http://www.datejs.com/ datejs] can parse.

==Editing through Text Facets==

You could also edit cells in a column sharing some common value using a default text facet created on that column. First, create a default text facet on that column. Then locate that value choice in the facet and hover your mouse over it. An "edit" link will appear next to the choice. Click it to get a popup. As this is a text facet, Google Refine will only let you enter a text string.

Editing through a text facet performs a find and replace operation. Consider a data set with a column of people's names. Creating a text facet on that column might yield something like this:

|| choice || count ||
|| Andy Anderson || 79 ||
|| Andy R. Anderson || 9 ||
|| Beatrice Beaufort || 28 ||
|| Cindy Mansfield || 67 ||
|| ... || ... ||

If you click "edit" on the choice "Andy R. Anderson" in the facet and enter "Andy Anderson", what that does is to go over each cell in that name column that contains the string "Andy R. Anderson" and replaces it with the string "Andy Anderson". Nine (9) such cells will be changed, and no cell in that column will contain "Andy R. Anderson", but 9 more cells will contain "Andy Anderson". As a result, the text facet will be updated to show 88 "Andy Anderson"; and "Andy R. Anderson" will disappear:

|| choice || count ||
|| Andy Anderson || 88 ||
|| Beatrice Beaufort || 28 ||
|| Cindy Mansfield || 67 ||
|| ... || ... ||

==Editing by Transforming==

The most common way to edit cells in a column in Google Refine is by invoking the Transform command on that column: from the column's drop-down menu, pick Edit cells > Transform ... In the dialog box, you enter an expression that gets evaluated on each row to compute the new cell value for that row. For example, consider this data set

|| name || age ||
|| John Smith || 28 ||
|| Jane Doe || 33 ||

Say we invoke the Transform command on the name column and enter the expression

{{{
  value.split(" ").reverse().join(", ")
}}}

This causes Google Refine to iterate through each of the 2 rows, and for each row, set the variable `value` to the row's cell in column "name", evaluate the expression, and put the result back into that cell. More specifically,

  * when Google Refine processes row 1, it sets `value` to the string `John Smith`, splits that string into 2 strings (`John` and `Smith`), reverses those two strings (`Smith` and `John`), joins them back to yield `Smith, John`, and puts that string into that cell.
  * when Google Refine processes row 2, it sets `value` to the string `Jane Doe`, splits that string into 2 strings (`Jane` and `Doe`), reverses those two strings (`Doe` and `Jane`), joins them back to yield `Doe, Jane`, and puts that string into that cell.

When you click OK, the data set will become

|| name || age ||
|| Smith, John || 28 ||
|| Doe, Jane || 33 ||

For more information on expressions, see [UnderstandingExpressions Understanding Expressions].


===Comparison with Spreadsheets Software===

Expressions in Google Refine differ from formulas in popular spreadsheet software. In spreadsheets, formulas are entered into cells. That is, a cell can contain a formula (the formula is computed and its result is displayed in the cell). In Google Refine, cells do *not* contain expressions. Rather, any expression you specify is evaluated to compute a value that is then stored into the cell. If the expression depends on other cells, and the other cells get changed later on, the expression is *not* evaluated again. Each transformation is done only once, *not* updated constantly.

Also, in spreadsheets, you have to copy formulas from one cell to other cells (typically using the Fill Down command or dragging down the selection rectangle from its bottom right corner). In Google Refine, there is no copying of expressions. Rather, an expression is applied to rows that are currently shown, as determined by constraints in facets and filters.


==Editing by Clustering==

Perhaps the most powerful way to edit cells is through the Clustering feature, but that deserves [Clustering a whole page of its own].