#summary Documentation hub for users
#labels Featured

----
*NOTE:* The project has moved to [http://openrefine.org].  You can find the currnet version of this page at  [https://github.com/OpenRefine/OpenRefine/wiki/Documentation-For-Users]. 

This page is for historical purposes only and applies to Google Refine 2.5 and earlier.
----

Where to start?

  * [InstallationInstructions How to install and run] ([UpgradingTo2p0 upgrading instructions])
  * [UserGuide How to use]

Love it so much?

  * [HowToParticipate Join in] with the development or help spread the meme about Google Refine.
  * [GetDevelopmentVersion Get the development version] so you can play with all the latest and greatest features, but if you are not afraid of bugs.

=Feature Areas=

*Essential:* These are the features you'd use 80% of the time when you use Refine. They help you clean up your data, extend it, and export it out for other tools to consume.

  * [Importers Importing]
  * [Faceting Filtering / faceting]
  * Editing:
    * [CellEditing Editing cells], editing cells by [Clustering Clustering]
    * [ColumnEditing Editing columns], creating columns by [ExtendingData Extending data]
    * [RowEditing Editing rows]
    * [UnderstandingExpressions Understanding expressions]
    * [UnderstandingRegularExpressions Understanding regular expressions]
  * [Exporters Exporting]
  * [History History] (undo/redo)

*Reconciliation:* You can use the "reconciliation" support in Refine to link text names in your data to database identifiers (also known as database keys, IDs). By connecting your data with other databases, you get more value out of your data.

  * [Reconciliation]
  * [ReconcilableDataSources Data sources]
  * [ExtendingData Extending Data - Calling Web Services]
  * [ExtendingDataFromFreebase Extending Data - Using Freebase]

*Uploading to Freebase:*
If you reconcile against [http://www.freebase.com/ Freebase], you can then align your data with Freebase's schemas using [SchemaAlignment Schema Alignment dialogs] and load your data into Freebase. For more information on Freebase data loading, see the [http://wiki.freebase.com/wiki/Refinery Refinery project].
  * [SchemaAlignment Schema Alignment]

*Extensions:* Add even more features to Refine by installing extensions.

  * [InstallingExtensions Installing Extensions]
  * [Extensions Extensions] that we know about

=Recipes=

For complicated tasks that are commonly done, just follow recipes that other folks have discovered and written up.  A recipe is just a sequence of steps, and tips and tricks.

There are *[Recipes Quick Recipes]*  (like removing duplicate row values, etc.)

and there are full recipes:

  * [Geocoding Geocoding] - translating street addresses to lat/lng coordinates
  * [FetchingURLsFromWebServices Fetching URLs From Web Services] - grabbing from the Web more data related to the data you already have
  * [StrippingHTML Web Scraping & Extracting items from HTML pages]
  * [RecipeApacheLogs Analyzing Apache Logs]


=Reference=

==Expressions==

  * [Variables Variables]
  * Google Refine Expression Language (GREL)
    * [GRELControls Controls]
    * [GRELFunctions Functions]
      * [GRELBooleanFunctions Boolean functions]
      * [GRELStringFunctions String functions]
      * [GRELArrayFunctions Array functions]
      * [GRELMathFunctions Math functions]
      * [GRELDateFunctions Date functions]
      * [GRELOtherFunctions Other functions]
  * [Jython Jython]

=External Sites=

While there's a lot of information in this wiki, there's plenty more online too. Here are some notable sites,

  * [http://blog.ouseful.info/tag/google-refine/ Tony Hirst's blog]
  * [http://googlerefine.blogspot.ca/ Martin Magdinier's blog]
  * Yours? [http://groups.google.com/group/google-refine/ Let us know!]

And of course [https://www.google.com/search?q=%22google+refine%22 searching online].