#summary A demonstration on how to use export templating to produce YAML.
#labels Tutorial

= Introduction =

For this tutorial, we are going to be working with a small set of data that looks like this:

|| *Person 0* || *Height (m) 1* || *Occupation 2* ||
|| Andy || 1.73 || Student ||
|| Bernd || 1.79 || Zoologist ||
|| Carol || 1.65 || Carpenter ||

By default, Google Refine exports JSON. JSON is a very effective way to transport data, but it can sometimes be difficult to read. Consider the difference between these two presentations of the same data:


== JSON ==

{{{
{
  "rows" : [
    {
      "Person 0" : "Andy",
      "Height (m) 1" : 1.73,
      "Occupation 2" : "Student"
    },
    {
      "Person 0" : "Bernd",
      "Height (m) 1" : 1.79,
      "Occupation 2" : "Zoologist"
    },
    {
      "Person 0" : "Carol",
      "Height (m) 1" : 1.65,
      "Occupation 2" : "Carpenter"
    }
  ]
}
}}}

== YAML ==

{{{
rows:

- Name : Andy
  Height (m): 1.73
  Occupation: Student

- Name : Bernd
  Height (m): 1.79
  Occupation: Zoologist

- Name : Carol
  Height (m): 1.65
  Occupation: Carpenter
}}}


You can follow along by pointing Google Refine at the example spreadsheet:

 * Go to http://localhost:3333/ in your web browser
 * Begin a new project with `https://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=0Aq_3OYelM4ZUdEpYYmNKY0t1V0VjYlR5UjFYejVHbWc&hl=en_GB&single=true&gid=0&range=A1%3AC4&output=html` as the URL. 
 * Click on `Export` > `Templating...`

= Details =

YAML is a very simple format. Its entire purpose is to be human readable. Also, it is focused on data, rather than documents. This makes it a perfect fit for sharing data from Google Refine.

== Changes to make ==

=== Prefix Field ===

*Most basic*

YAML documents don't need any curly braces. If you want, you can leave this field blank.

*Basic*

If you would like to be careful, you can add some features.

  * Four dashes "-"
  * A comment that tells people what the data are about

{{{
----#people

}}}

*More advanced*

We can provide some details about the document in here

{{{
----#people

Date: Monday, 15 November 2010
Author: Tim

}}}


=== Row Field ===

Generating rows is much simpler than the current JSON. The main thing to watch out for is that there is a blank line between rows.

Try changing:
{{{
    {
      "Person 0" : {{jsonize(cells["Person 0"].value)}},
      "Height (m) 1" : {{jsonize(cells["Height (m) 1"].value)}},
      "Occupation 2" : {{jsonize(cells["Occupation 2"].value)}},
      "Column 3" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 3"].value)}},
      "Column 4" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 4"].value)}},
      "Column 5" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 5"].value)}},
      "Column 6" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 6"].value)}},
      "Column 7" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 7"].value)}},
      "Column 8" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 8"].value)}},
      "Column 9" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 9"].value)}},
      "Column 10" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 10"].value)}},
      "Column 11" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 11"].value)}},
      "Column 12" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 12"].value)}},
      "Column 13" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 13"].value)}},
      "Column 14" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 14"].value)}},
      "Column 15" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 15"].value)}},
      "Column 16" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 16"].value)}},
      "Column 17" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 17"].value)}},
      "Column 18" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 18"].value)}},
      "Column 19" : {{jsonize(cells["Column 19"].value)}}
    }
}}}
To:
{{{

-  Name: {{cells["Person 0"].value}}
   Height (m): {{cells["Height (m) 1"].value}}
   Occupation: {{cells["Occupation 2"].value}}
}}}

Some points here:

  * Keep the curly braces in place. That tells Google Refine that you need to do some processing there.
  * Remove the trailing commas from each part
  * Make sure the cell headings match exactly.

=== Suffix Field ===

Adding three dots is good practice. It tells the machine that we've finished.

{{{
...
}}}
