#summary FAQ: How to allocate more memory?

If you are working with large data sets, you'll probably want to allow Google Refine to allocate more memory than the default.  If you get OutOfMemoryError reported or if your operations are taking a very long time to run, you should allocate more memory if possible. You will, however, need to balance that allocation with the needs of your operating system.

Even if you don't get OutOfMemoryError, when you are getting close to running out of heap space (memory), the system will spend more and more time managing the heap (ie garbage collecting) and less time doing useful work on your operations.

A typical best practice is to start with no more than 50% of your available physical memory, since certain OS's will utilize up to 1 Gig or more of physical RAM.

Example: If you have 2 Gigs of memory and run Windows Vista or 7, you might only have 1 gig of physical memory left over.  Starting with a setting of 512m (50% of 1 Gig) can avoid disk caching problems processing large files with many rows and columns. (A 200 meg text file of 331,000 rows x 50 columns)

*Windows:*

Open a "command prompt", 'cd' to the folder where Google Refine is installed, then type

`refine.bat /m 2048m`

where "2048m" is the maximum amount of memory (in Mb) that you want Google Refine to use.

If you decide to use the refine.exe, then set your parameters in the .ini file found in the same folder.
{{{
# Launch4j runtime config

# initial memory heap size

-Xms256M

# max memory memory heap size

-Xmx2048M

# -XX:+UseLargePages

# -Dsomevar="%SOMEVAR%"
}}}

Also, in order to use more than 3.5 Gigs RAM you need to download and install Java 64bit and set it as your default `JAVA_HOME`.  As in this screenshot (notice `C:\Program Files\` and NOT the `C:\Program Files (x86)\` folder):

[http://google-refine.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=-2884257417064877035&name=JavaHomePathWin7_64bit.png&token=089b7b02a742d6ab3b07c9dc8664d3b3&inline=1]

*Mac:*

If you have downloaded the ".dmg" package and you start Google Refine by double clicking on it, follow these instructions

  * close Google Refine
  * "control-click" on the Google Refine icon (opens the contextual menu)
  * click on "show package content" (a finder window opens)
  * open the "Contents" folder
  * double click on the "Info.plist" file (a Property List Editor app comes up)
  * expand the "java" section at the bottom
  * double click on the "VMOptions" content (the right end side)
  * change "${java.options}" with "-Xms256M -Xmx1024M"
  * save file
  * start Google Refine again

*Linux (or Mac):*

If you have downloaded the ".tar.gz" package and you start Google Refine from the command line, use the "-m xxxM" parameter like this

`./refine -m 1024m`

== One final note ==

If your project is big enough to need more than the default amount of memory, you probably also want to consider turning off "detect types automatically" on import as well.  It's convenient, but less efficient than explicitly converting any columns that you need as a data type other than the default "string" type.