#summary String functions supported by Google Refine Expression Language (GREL)

See also: [GRELFunctions All GREL functions].

=Basic=

===`length(string s)`===

Returns the length of `s` as a number.


=Testing String Characteristics=

===`startsWith(string s, string sub)`===

Returns boolean indicating whether `s` starts with `sub`. For example, `startsWith("food", "foo")` returns `true`, whereas `startsWith("food", "bar")` returns `false`. You could also write the first case as `"food".startsWith("foo")`.

===`endsWith(string s, string sub)`===

Returns boolean indicating whether `s` ends with `sub`. For example, `endsWith("food", "ood")` returns `true`, whereas `endsWith("food", "odd")` returns `false`. You could also write the first case as `"food".endsWith("foo")`.

===`contains(string s, string sub)`===

Returns boolean indicating whether `s` contains `sub`. For example, `contains("food", "oo")` returns `true` whereas `contains("food", "ee")` returns `false`. You could also write the first case as `"food".contains("oo")`.


=Basic String Modification=

==Case Conversion==

===`toLowercase(string s)`===

Returns `s` converted to lowercase.

===`toUppercase(string s)`===

Returns `s` converted to uppercase.

===`toTitlecase(string s)`===

Returns `s` converted to titlecase. For example, `toTitlecase("Once upon a midnight dreary")` returns the string `Once Upon A Midnight Dreary`.

==Trimming==

===`trim(string s)` and `strip(string s)`===

Returns a copy of the string, with leading and trailing whitespace removed. For example, `trim("  island  ")` returns the string `island`.

===`chomp(string s, string sep)`===

Returns a copy of `s` with `sep` removed from the end if `s` ends with `sep`; otherwise, just returns `s`. For example, `chomp("hardly", "ly")` and `chomp("hard", "ly")` both return the string `hard`.

==Substring==

===`substring(s, number from, optional number to)` and `slice(s, number from, optional number to)` and `get	(o, number or string from, optional number to)`===

Returns the substring of `s` starting from character index `from` and upto character index `to`. If `to` is omitted, it's understood as the end of the string `s`. For example, `substring("profound", 3)` returns the string `found`, and `substring("profound", 2, 4)` returns the string `of`.

Character indexes start from zero. Negative character indexes are understood as counting from the end of the string. For example, `substring("profound", 1, -1)` returns the string `rofoun`.


==Find and Replace==

===`indexOf(string s, string sub)`===

Returns the index of `sub` first ocurring in `s` as a character index; or `-1` if `s` does not contain `sub`. For example, `indexOf("internationalization", "nation")` returns `5`, whereas `indexOf("internationalization", "world")` returns `-1`.

===`lastIndexOf(string s, string sub)`===

Returns the index of `sub` last ocurring in `s` as a character index; or `-1` if `s` does not contain `sub`. For example, `indexOf("parallel", "a")` returns `3` (pointing at the second character "a").

===`replace(string s, string f, string r)`===

Returns the string obtained by replacing `f` with `r` in `s`. `f` can be a regular expression, in which case `r` can also contain capture groups declared in f.

For a simple example, `replace("The cow jumps over the moon and moos", "oo", "ee")` returns the string `The cow jumps over the meen and mees`.

===`replaceChars(string s, string f, string r)`===

Returns the string obtained by replacing any character in `s` that is also in `f` with the character `r`. For example, `replaceChars("commas , and semicolons ; are separators", ",;", "*")` returns the string `commas * and semicolons * are separators`.

===`match(string s, regexp p)`===

Attempts to match the string `s` in its entirety against the regex pattern `p` and returns an array of capture groups. For example, `match("230.22398, 12.3480", /\.(\d\d\d+)/)` returns an array of 1 string: `3480`. `match("230.22398, 12.3480", /.*\.(\d+).*\.(\d+)/)` returns an array of 2 strings: `22398` and `3480`. 


=String Parsing and Splitting=

===`toNumber(o)`===

Returns `o` converted to a number.

===`split(s, sep)`===

Returns the array of strings obtained by splitting `s` at wherever `sep` is found in it. `sep` can be either a string or a regular expression. For example, `split("fire, water, earth, air", ",")` returns the array of 4 strings: "`fire`", "` water`", " ` earth`" , and "` air`". The double quotation marks are shown here only to highlight the fact that the spaces are retained.

===`splitByLengths(string s, number n1, number n2, ...)`===

Returns the array of strings obtained by splitting s into substrings with the given lengths. For example, `splitByLengths("internationalization", 5, 6, 3)` returns an array of 3 strings: `inter`, `nation`, and `ali`.

===`smartSplit(string s, optional string sep)`===

Returns the array of strings obtained by splitting `s` by the separator `sep`. Handles quotes properly. Guesses tab or comma separator if `sep` is not given.

===`splitByCharType(s)`===

Returns an array of strings obtained by splitting `s` into groups of consecutive characters where the characters within each group share the same unicode type, and consecutive groups differ in their unicode types.

===`partition(string s, string or regex frag, optional boolean omitFragment)`===

Returns an array of strings `[` `a`, `frag`, `b` `]` where `a` is the substring within `s` before the first occurrence of `frag` in `s`, and `b` is the substring after `frag` in `s`. For example, `partition("internationalization", "nation")` returns 3 strings: `inter`, `nation`, and `alization`. If `s` does not contain `frag`, it returns an array of `[` `s`, "", "" `]` (the first string is the original `s` and the second and third strings are empty).

If `omitFragment` is `true`, `frag` is not returned. That is, the result is an array of only 2 elements.

===`rpartition(string s, string or regex frag, optional boolean omitFragment)`===

Returns an array of strings `[` `a`, `frag`, `b` `]` where `a` is the substring within `s` before the *last* occurrence of `frag` in `s`, and `b` is the substring after `frag` in `s`. For example, `partition("parallel", "a")` returns 3 strings: `par`, `a`, and `llel`. If `s` does not contain `frag`, it returns an array of `[` `s`, "", "" `]` (the first string is the original `s` and the second and third strings are empty).


=Encoding and Hashing=

===`diff(o1, o2, optional string timeUnit)`===

For strings, returns the portion where they differ. For dates, it returns the difference in given time units.


===`escape(string s, string mode)`===

Escapes `s` in the given escaping mode: `html`, `xml`, `csv`, `url`, `javascript`.

===`unescape(string s, string mode)`===

Unescapes `s` in the given escaping mode: `html`, `xml`, `csv`, `url`, `javascript`.

===`md5(string s)`===

Returns the MD5 hash of `s`.

===`sha1(string s)`===

Returns the SHA-1 hash of `s`.

===`phonetic(string s, optional string encoding)`===

Returns the a phonetic encoding of `s`, optionally indicating which encoding to use (defaults to `DoubleMetaphone`).

===`reinterpret(string s, string encoder)`===

Returns `s` reinterpreted thru the given encoder.

===`fingerprint(string s)`===

Returns the fingerprint of `s`, a derived string that aims to be a more canonical form of it (this is mostly useful for finding clusters of strings related to the same information).

===`ngram(string s, number n)`===

Returns an array of the word ngrams of `s`.

===`ngramFingerprint(string s, number n)`===

Returns the n-gram fingerprint of `s`.

===`unicode(string s)`===

Returns an array of strings describing each character of `s` in their full unicode notation.

===`unicodeType(string s)`===

Returns an array of strings describing each character of `s` in their full unicode notation.


=Freebase Specific=

===`mqlKeyQuote(string s)`===

Returns a string that is a quoted MQL key.  More info: [http://wiki.freebase.com/wiki/MQL_key_escaping MQL key escaping]

===`mqlKeyUnquote(string s)`===

Returns a string that is an unquoted MQL key. More info: [http://wiki.freebase.com/wiki/MQL_key_escaping MQL key escaping]