#summary How to import data into Google Refine to create new projects.

To use Google Refine on some data, you must first import it into Refine. It's like uploading a data file into, say, Google Spreadsheets, except that there is no *up* in uploading, because Refine runs on your own computer anyway. This importing process creates a new Refine project for your data file.

Google Refine understands a variety of data file formats. Currently, it tries to guess the format based on the file extension. For example, `.xml` files are of course in XML. By default, an unknown file extension is assumed to be either tab-separated value (TSV) or comma-separated value (CSV). Google Refine looks for a tab character; if one is found, it assumes TSV.

The formats currently supported (in version 2.0) include:

  * TSV, CSV, or values separated by a custom separator you specify
  * Excel (.xls, xlsx)
  * XML, RDF as XML
  * JSON

If you have data in a very peculiar text format, just import it without splitting lines into columns, and then once it's imported, do your own custom column splitting.

If you upload an archive file (with extension `.zip`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, `.tar.bz2`, `.gz`, or `.bz2`), Google Refine detects the most common file extension in it and loads all files with that extension into a single project.

You can also point Google Refine at a URL to a data file. The mime-type of that URL tells Google Refine which format the data is in.

Once imported, the data is stored in Google Refine's own format, and your original data file is left undisturbed.