#summary Listing of Reconcilable Data Sources
#labels Phase-Implementation 

----
*NOTE:* The project & documentation is in the process of moving to [https://github.com/OpenRefine/OpenRefine/wiki/Reconcilable-Data-Sources]. Please check [https://github.com/OpenRefine/OpenRefine/wiki/Reconcilable-Data-Sources there] first for the latest information. 
----

With Google Refine you can perform reconciliation against any web service supporting the [ReconciliationServiceApi Reconciliation Service API].
Reconciliation against Freebase is built in, but there are several other
reconciliation services available, including:

====OpenCorporates====

31 million corporate entities (as of Nov. 2011) available for reconciliation through their service.
Screencast: [http://vimeo.com/17924204]
Blog posts: [http://blog.opencorporates.com/tag/google-refine/]

====SPARQL endpoints====

The RDF Extension by DERI at NUI Galway includes reconciliation against
any SPARQL endpoint or RDF dump file and publishing of the results in RDF.
[http://lab.linkeddata.deri.ie/2010/grefine-rdf-extension/]

====VIVO Scientific Collaboration Platform===

VIVO is a U.S. national interdisciplinary open source scientific collaboration platform funded by the NIH with development led by Cornell.  Their reconciliation service allows reconciling against VIVO entities (faculty members, journals, etc) in any VIVO installation.
http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/vivo/index.php?title=Extending_Google_Refine_for_VIVO

====Talis Kasabi====
The Kasabi reconciliation services provide reconciliation against any database published on the Kasabi platform. http://kasabi.com/doc/api/reconciliation

====Talis Platform reconciliation services (dead?)====
Example: [http://ldodds.com/gridworks/govuk-statistics/reconcile]

Documentation: [http://www.ldodds.com/blog/2010/08/gridworks-reconciliation-api-implementation/]

====Taxonomic Databases====

Taxonomic databases (EOL, NCBI, uBio, WORMS), as documented here [http://iphylo.blogspot.com/2012/02/using-google-refine-and-taxonomic.html].


==Wish List==

The following are data sources that could provide useful reconciling within Google Refine.
If you would like to help with coding a reconciling extension for any, please contact our mailing list.  We would love to see some of these happen!

  * [http://www.marinespecies.org/aphia.php?p=webservice WoRMS] - World Register of Marine Species provides web service for marine taxa. 
  * [http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/about/api/ Historical Newspapers] - Library of Congress' Chronicling America provides JSON, RDF, XML & Linked Data with an easy to use API.
  * [http://cactus.nci.nih.gov/chemical/structure/documentation Chemical Identifier Resolver] - Over 96 million chemical structures hosted by NCI/NIH, provides names, conversions, & various formats even XML output. 