#summary Gridworks Roadmap

===Introduction===
Gridworks has a few key features which should be maintained in any future incarnation.
  * data comes first and structure is added to it later.
  * Gridworks doesn't impose or enforce any type of workflow
  * full and persistent undo/redo
  * subsets of data accessed through faceted browsing
  * Modular [PluginInterfaces plugin] architecture

===Planned Features ===

  * JSON importer
  * other importer options
  ** fixed length columns
  * exporter options
  ** which columns to export
  * fix extend data dialog box to support constraints
  * more convenient way to split a column
  * Support for grouping columns
  ** Support mouse selection for creating new column groups
  * Data set joins - this is quite compelling but needs more architectural thinking
  * emql extension? mql support?
  * RABJ integration
  * Better machinery to guess and re-encode cell values (useful for fixing encoding issues)
  * map + timeline facets
  * gadget-like skeleton emergence from tree-shaped data
  * "merge columns" command (possibly including ranges and open ended ones as well, say both [3,5] meaning merge   column 3,4,5 together and [10,] meaning from the 10th column onward)
  * optional regexp parsing at import


==Feature Requests, Bugs, Comments, Etc.==

Please go to the [http://code.google.com/p/freebase-gridworks/issues/list issues tracker] for the most up to-date list.
  * after splitting multi-valued cells containing something like "1997 / 1998 / 1999", try to parse individual result into numbers
  * if you create a numeric facet based on a column, and then kill the column, the facet would cause the collection to go blank (try the year facet from the Start column of the disasters data set)
  * after splitting multi-valued cells, you can't filter by the context columns anymore, e.g., filter film director by from original country
  * long running processes should serialize their intermediate results and recover later, too.
  * when applying operations, try to fix common json errors, like missing or extraneous commas and missing top level brackets. This is probably important for inexperienced (aka non-programming) users.
  * After splitting a row, doing a custom transform where you refer to another column seems to only apply to the first row
  ** This requires adding a "context" variable to the evaluation environment. "context[column name]" would return the context cell in column "column name".
  * ability to move columns
  * ability to cluster records -- to look for records that look alike and might actually be the same (useful for de-duplication)
  * option or preference to only show Freebase /common types in dropdowns for type and property suggestions.