#summary Curated list of quotes, references, uses and extensions about Google Refine (previously called Freebase Gridworks) in the wild

=About the Latest Version=

===Blogs===

"Google Refine isn’t going to solve the problem of poor data availability, but for those who manage to gain access to existing records, it can be a powerful tool for transparency."

    [http://jackfruity.com/ Rebekah Heacock], co-director of the [http://transparency.globalvoicesonline.org/ Technology for Transparency Network] and a Project Coordinator at Harvard’s [http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/ Berkman Center for Internet and Society] -  [http://sunlightfoundation.com/blog/ Sunlight Foundation], [http://sunlightfoundation.com/blog/2011/01/06/tools-for-transparency-google-refine/ Tools for transparency: Google Refine].

"Google Refine is an immensely powerful tool for dealing with "messy" data, and it sports a myriad of advanced features for massaging and analyzing complex data sets"

    Dmitri Popov ([http://www.linux-magazine.com/ Linux Magazine]) - [http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Use-Google-Refine-to-Massage-Your-Data Use Google Refine to Massage Your Data]

"For anyone who’s ever had to sort through messy data to try to turn up a meaningful treatment, and who hasn’t, this tool is a godsend."

    [http://library.law.uvic.ca/services/contact-us/mrl Michael Lines], [http://www.slaw.ca/ SLAW] - [http://www.slaw.ca/2010/11/12/google-refine-2/ Google Refine 2.0]

"Google Refine 2.0 will serve an excellent back-end for data visualization services. It has been well received by the Chicago Tribune and open-government data communities. Along with Google Squared, Refine 2.0 can create a powerful research tool."

    Chinmoy Kanjilal, Techie Buzz - [http://techie-buzz.com/foss/google-refine-data-tool.html Google Refine 2.0: Power Tools for Working With Data]


Google Refine (the program formerly known as Freebase Gridworks) is described by its creators as a “power tool for working with messy data” but could very well be advertised as “remedy for eye fatigue, migraines, depression, and other symptoms of prolonged data-cleaning.”

    Dan Nguyen, ProPublica - [http://www.propublica.org/nerds/item/using-google-refine-for-data-cleaning Chapter 1. Using Google Refine to Clean Messy Data]

The functionality offered by Google Refine is paramount and provides the user with a simple interface with powerful data manipulation capabilities. ... I solicited Ryan Boyles to develop a script to sanitize the data which, in total, took about 45 minutes to get the data into a proper format. Utilizing Google Refine I was able to replicate the work of his script in about 15 minutes!

    Logan Lynn, The Data Revolution - [http://www.thedatarevolution.com/2011/01/14/get-started-with-google-refine-2-0/ Get Started With Google Refine 2.0]

Google Refine for SEO: [http://www.blindfiveyearold.com/find-keyword-modifiers-with-google-refine]

"When I first saw Freebase Gridworks I was a very happy man. Here was a tool that tackled one of the biggest problems in data journalism: cleaning dirty data (and data is invariably dirty). The tool made it easy to identify variations of a single term, and clean them up, to link one set of data to another – and much more besides."

    [http://ojb.journallocal.co.uk Online Journalism Blog] post [http://ojb.journallocal.co.uk/2010/11/11/data-cleaning-tool-relaunches-freebase-gridworks-becomes-google-refine/ Data cleaning tool relaunches: Freebase Gridworks becomes Google Refine]

===Tweets===

"Damn! Wish I had this 5 years ago! RT @swiertz nice tools ! Format & clean your data with Google Refine http://goo.gl/UniR6 #cleanup #tools"

    [http://twitter.com/barthox Xavier Bartholome] [http://twitter.com/#!/barthox/status/4803982065147904 view]

"YIPEEEE!  Google Refine works with OAI-PMH XML out of the box.   This is going to make my life much easier."

    [http://twitter.com/#!/Musebrarian Richard Urban] [http://twitter.com/#!/Musebrarian/status/4723491286810624 view]

"It’s kind of ridiculous how exciting I find this: https://code.google.com/p/google-refine/"

    [http://twitter.com/#!/kb kb], [http://twitter.com/kb/statuses/5177336995512320 view tweet]

"Google Refine is like a dream come true. #grefine http://sunlightfoundation.com/blog/2011/01/06/tools-for-transparency-google-refine/ "

    [http://twitter.com/#!/liamaa Liam Arbetman], [http://twitter.com/#!/liamaa/status/23103260483129344 tweet]
            

"I rarely feel the desire to kiss a corporation on the mouth, but Google Refine is making me come close http://goo.gl/8pvKB #datageek"

    [http://twitter.com/#!/litcritter litcritter], [http://twitter.com/#!/litcritter/statuses/5296061488828416 view tweet]

"For those who haven't looked yet, Google Refine / Gridworks 2.0 blows the doors off. Its the single best tool I'm using."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/onyxfish Christopher Groskopf], [http://twitter.com/#!/onyxfish/statuses/4599207788806144 view tweet]

"I'm sold on #Google #Refine used it most of the day with "messy" data and managed to clean nearly all of it."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/LearonDalby Learon Dalby], [http://twitter.com/#!/LearonDalby/statuses/4303660389502976 view tweet]

"Today google #refine saved my afternoon. Every #data #hacker should try it"

   [http://twitter.com/#!/roolio roolio], [http://twitter.com/roolio/statuses/4187886568083456 view tweet]

"Google refine is awesome. Never before have I been home this early."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/Salesient Salesient], [http://twitter.com/#!/Salesient/statuses/4242219707928576 view tweet]

"I am having far, far too much fun with Google Refine. This tool is ridiculously powerful, even without Freebase integration."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/jatowler Jerry Towler], [http://twitter.com/#!/jatowler/statuses/5542139572264960 view tweet]

"Not only will it clean your data, Google Refine will slice, dice and put bows on your hairdo! http://bit.ly/cPGn1E Rocks data exploration."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/Mayin Mario Talavera], [http://twitter.com/#!/mayin/status/5386710112276481 view tweet]

"Google Refine: Making interns unneccesary since 2010."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/marklabedz Mark Labedz] [http://twitter.com/#!/marklabedz/statuses/9633943271772160 view tweet]

"i'm completely in love with Google Refine. fo' reals."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/naterkane Nater Kane] [http://twitter.com/#!/naterkane/statuses/9981143436763136 view tweet]

"Using #Google #Refine makes me happy. Even for the easy stuff."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/LearonDalby Learon Dalby] [http://twitter.com/#!/LearonDalby/statuses/10370150263947266 view tweet]

"Google Refine: love at first click"

   [http://twitter.com/loranstefani Loran Cook], [http://twitter.com/loranstefani/statuses/18051195771817984 view tweet]

"Um, this intro to Google Refine makes the data-lover in me uber-horny. http://bit.ly/8XN0xU [humps monitor]"

   [http://twitter.com/#!/kimmieoftroy Kim M.] [http://twitter.com/#!/kimmieoftroy/status/22388155407667201 view tweet]

"Google Refine 2.0 makes this reporter so happy he could hug it. Except that he has a rule: no hugging Google products."

   [http://twitter.com/#!/jsguntzel Jeff Severns Guntzel] [http://twitter.com/#!/jsguntzel/statuses/22658537058467840 view tweet]

"Google Refine is gonna change my life"

   [http://twitter.com/#!/tracyctran Tracy Tran] [http://twitter.com/#!/tracyctran/status/27422734816382977 view tweet]

Oh man! Google Refine is making our lives so much easier, shaving hours off analysing keyword data: http://t.co/WQotutC

   [http://twitter.com/#!/woofonline woofonline] [http://twitter.com/#!/woofonline/status/28130932099645440 view tweet]

Google Refine, I freakin' love you. #Badass #NerdLove #fangirl #NewBoyfriendDay

   [http://twitter.com/#!/rhiannoncoppin Rhiannon Coppin] [http://twitter.com/#!/rhiannoncoppin/status/31149069439078400 view tweet]

If only more people knew how amazingly powerful Google Refine was, the world would be a different place.

   [http://twitter.com/#!/irwin irwin] [http://twitter.com/#!/irwin/status/34989881616891904 view tweet]

Mind officially blown by how great Google Refine looks for cleaning messy data. Thank you, @dfhuynh: http://ow.ly/43YnO #nicar11

   [http://twitter.com/#!/ultracasual Tom Meagher] [http://twitter.com/#!/ultracasual/status/41543073511112704 view tweet]

Dear Google #Refine, thank you for existing and saving me from my Cut and Paste nightmares. http://code.google.com/p/google-refine/

    [http://twitter.com/#!/Dorje David Monroe] [http://twitter.com/#!/Dorje/status/43364623860252672 view tweet]

Google you have made my world 400% easier with google refine. Im your friend.

    [http://twitter.com/davvyk davvyk] [http://twitter.com/davvyk/status/58545718415204352# view tweet]

Not too many programs are a pleasure to work with to the level of Google Refine

    [http://twitter.com/#!/victorcoder Victor Castell] [http://twitter.com/#!/victorcoder/status/71132170948845568 view tweet]

Google Refine, in one minute, has saved me hours of work! http://bit.ly/d3mIXG

    [http://twitter.com/rubinsztajn Aaron Rubinstein] [http://twitter.com/#!/rubinsztajn/status/74164857364156417 view tweet]

@mattwaite tells of his despair over the hours spent cleaning data that can now be cleaned in a few minutes in Google Refine #IRE11 #gannett

    [http://twitter.com/#!/markschaver Mark Schaver] [http://twitter.com/#!/markschaver/status/78837142964547584 view tweet]

@mattwaite also says #IRE2011 "It makes me want to drown in a bathtub when I look at Google Refine... all the hours of my life I've lost."

    [http://twitter.com/#!/alicitabrennan alicitabrennan] [http://twitter.com/#!/alicitabrennan/status/78836868719984640 view tweet]

Google Refine: An empiricist's new best friend. - If you’ve never seen it before, Google Refine is a free... http://tumblr.com/x8r34dba7z

    [http://twitter.com/Jaron_In_Theory] [http://twitter.com/#!/Jaron_In_Theory/status/83582754364735488 view tweet]

Finally played around with @google refine. In two clicks it did what took me several steps in #Access. #prettyawesome http://t.co/8Pj7ebE

    [http://twitter.com/lisachiuster] [http://twitter.com/#!/lisachiuster/status/83315910613540865 view tweet]


=About Freebase Gridworks 1.x=

=== Blog Posts ===

"Refine really shines when it is used to combine or transform data from multiple sources, so it's no surprise that it has been popular for open government and data journalism tasks.
... Best of all, Google Refine keeps a running changelog that lets you review and revert changes to your data -- so go ahead: play around."

    [http://radar.oreilly.com/julies/index.html Julie Steele] (O'Reilly Radar) - [http://radar.oreilly.com/2010/11/strata-week-keeping-it-clean.html Strata week: Keeping it clean]

"As the open data juggernaut picks up steam, a lot of folks are going to discover what some of us have known all 
along. Much of the data that’s lying around is a mess. That’s partly because nobody has ever really looked at it. 
As a new wave of visualization tools arrives, there will be more eyeballs on more data, and that’s a great thing. 
But we’ll also need to be able to lay hands on the data and clean up the messes we can begin to see. 
As we do, we’ll want to be using tools that do the kinds of things shown in the Gridworks screencasts."

    [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Udell Jon Udell] (Microsoft) - [http://blog.jonudell.net/2010/03/26/freebase-gridworks-a-power-tool-for-data-scrubbers/ Freebase Gridworks: A power tool for data scrubbers]

"... PowerPivot and Gridworks. Each, on its own, is an amazing tool. But the combination makes my spidey 
sense tingle in a way I haven’t felt for a long time."

    [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Udell Jon Udell] (Microsoft) - [http://blog.jonudell.net/2010/04/19/powerpivot-gridworks-wow/ PowerPivot + Gridworks = Wow!] 

"...the tool looks absolutely fantastic."

    [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simon_Willison Simon Willison] - [http://simonwillison.net/2010/Mar/27/gridworks/ Preview: Freebase Gridworks] 

"This is a tremendous contribution to the community, especially given that comparable commercial products 
are priced well out of range of small businesses, independent developers, and newsrooms. While we can’t tell 
you about any of the projects we are using it on just yet, we can say that its changing the way we look at data 
on a daily basis. We really can’t say enough about what a great application Gridworks is and about its myriad 
uses for hacker journalists and data-nerds of all stripes."

    [http://www.linkedin.com/in/christophergroskopf Christopher Groskopf] (Chicago Tribune) - [http://blog.apps.chicagotribune.com/2010/05/17/the-gift-of-freebase-gridworks/ Data normalization par excellence–the gift of Freebase Gridworks]

"If you’re concerned with building and maintaining collections of semi-structured data, or building your 
own technology for this purpose, I suggest you check out these state-of-the-art tools."

    [http://www.linkedin.com/in/dtunkelang Daniel Tunkelang] (Google) - [http://thenoisychannel.com/2010/06/20/gridworks-and-needlebase/ Gridworks and Needlebase]

"Gridworks is a simply amazing tool for data cleansing, analysis and, as we’ve seen, transformation. It’s set to become more so for our purposes in the near future, as it comes to support the mapping of names for things to URIs using configurable reconciliation services (which might allow it to automatically map Government Department names to URIs, for example), and the creation of RDF using a more intuitive and user-friendly approach than the templates that I’ve illustrated here."

    Jeni Tennison - [http://www.jenitennison.com/blog/node/145 Using Freebase Gridworks to Create Linked Data]


=== Tweets ===

"Gridworks is like crack for data junkies"

    [http://twitter.com/eyeseast Chris Amico] ([http://www.pbs.org/newshour/ PBS NewsHour]) [http://twitter.com/eyeseast/status/14451895341 view]

"I think @thejefflarson is going to name a dog after Gridworks (speaking of his colleague Jeff Larson)"

    [http://twitter.com/kleinmatic Scott Klein] ([http://www.propublica.org/ ProPublica]) [http://twitter.com/kleinmatic/statuses/14253552041 view]

"I just got to know old data all over again using Freebase Gridworks"

    [http://twitter.com/drapetomaniac Rich Vázquez] ([http://impactnews.com/ ImpactNews]) [http://twitter.com/drapetomaniac/statuses/13756191891 view]

"@fbase's Gridworks has taken a good day and made it truly epic. http://bit.ly/c9Ttdv Thanks for the boost guys."

    [http://twitter.com/onyxfish Christopher Groskopf] [http://twitter.com/onyxfish/status/13741775910 view]

"Gridworks is a gamechanger, no doubt! RT @stefanomaz theory and practice behind clustering in Gridworks http://bit.ly/b0EyyB"

    [http://twitter.com/LookBackMaps  Jon Voss] [http://twitter.com/LookBackMaps/statuses/14338170478 view]

"I'm done here - after google (prediction-api) and metaweb (gridworks) have been through there is nothing left to do."

    [http://twitter.com/gromgull Gunnar Grimnes] [http://twitter.com/gromgull/statuses/14348680235 view]

"http://bit.ly/93pTSL @judell "Freebase Gridworks will make you weep with joy' (via @rdmpage) Wow! Why wasn't this invented earlier"

    [http://twitter.com/peterdesmet Peter Desmet] [http://twitter.com/peterdesmet/status/13791307008 view]

"Freebase releases Gridworks 1.0 This is a the most useful tool I have seen in a long time. http://bit.ly/c8emxf"

    [http://twitter.com/zacwitte Zac Witte] [http://twitter.com/zacwitte/status/13746563538 view]

"I've had so much fun alpha testing Freebase Gridworks. It is very much the powertool for working with datasets I had been waiting for."

    [http://twitter.com/rdhyee Raymond Yee] [http://twitter.com/rdhyee/status/13404067036 view]

"@JeniT freebase gridworks proves you don't need RDF to be semantic :) used it heavily over the weekend"

    [http://twitter.com/delineator Rob McKinnon] [http://twitter.com/delineator/statuses/14630650064 view]

"Using gridworks to clean up @farmsubsidy data. This is fun :)"

    [http://twitter.com/symroe Sym Roe] [http://twitter.com/symroe/statuses/14619696804 view]

"I <3 scatterplot matrix and scatterfacets! Don't know what they are? Watch this gridworks screencast: http://vimeo.com/11854491 "

    [http://twitter.com/spellboundblog Jeanne Kramer-Smyth] [http://twitter.com/spellboundblog/statuses/14264336609 view]

"Freebase Gridworks very impressive http://bit.ly/cjx3ZX, covers many features we want in pub workbench (discovered via @JeniT)"
    [http://twitter.com/der42 Dave Reynolds] [http://twitter.com/der42/status/11188314594 view]

"Gridworks looks amazing. Great UI for data cleansing, record linkage, schema mapping. We need this for #linkeddata! http://bit.ly/diAw4a "

    [http://twitter.com/cygri Richard Cyganiak] [http://twitter.com/cygri/status/11492299667 view]

"Well, @stefanomaz. Haven't got as excited as I just did from Gridworks since… Cocoon in 1999!!! I'm OLD! Congrats!"

    [http://twitter.com/Vincent_Olivier Vincent Olivier] [http://twitter.com/Vincent_Olivier/status/14202326806 view]

"Getting over excited about using Freebase Gridworks for data cleanup, munging, and maybe, just maybe easy generation... http://ff.im/k73kf "

    [http://twitter.com/CameronNeylon Cameron Neylon] [http://twitter.com/CameronNeylon/statuses/13731457745 view]

"Judging by the number of people searching for Freebase Gridworks and landing on my mini-review, it's getting some use. http://bit.ly/cvsSTh "

    [http://twitter.com/AnthonyDB Anthony DeBarros] [http://twitter.com/AnthonyDB/status/17620349275 view]



= Extensions =

*[http://lab.linkeddata.deri.ie/2010/dcat/ DCat]*

    - Fadi Maali, [http://richard.cyganiak.de/ Richard Cyganiak], and Vassilios Peristeras ([http://www.deri.ie/ DERI]) 

*[https://github.com/newsapps/refine-stats Refine Stats]*

    - [http://twitter.com/#!/joegermuska Joe Germuska] and [http://twitter.com/#!/onyxfish Christopher Groskopf]

= Tutorials/Reviews =

[http://www.anthonydebarros.com/about/ Anthony DeBarros] ([http://www.usatoday.com/ USA Today]) - *[http://www.anthonydebarros.com/2010/06/06/freebase-gridworks-1-1/ Test Drive: Freebase Gridworks 1.1]*

[http://www.linkedin.com/in/jayluker Jay Luker] ([http://www.cfa.harvard.edu/ Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics]) - *[http://blog.reallywow.com/archives/135 Exploring Astronomy Dataset Links with GridWorks]*

[http://www.linkedin.com/in/paolociccarese Paolo Ciccarese] ([http://hms.harvard.edu/ Harvard Medical School]) - *[http://hcklab.blogspot.com/2010/04/first-steps-with-gridworks-1.html First Steps with Gridworks - part 1]* ([http://hcklab.blogspot.com/2010/04/first-steps-with-gridworks-2.html part 2], [http://hcklab.blogspot.com/2010/04/first-steps-with-gridworks-3.html part3])

[http://www.propublica.org/site/author/jeff_larson Jeff Larson] ([http://www.propublica.org/ ProPublica]) - *[http://www.propublica.org/nerds/item/the-rainbow-connection-how-we-made-our-cdo-connections-graphic The Rainbow Connection: How We Made Our CDO Connections Graphic]*

[http://blog.spaziogis.it/2010/10/29/where-to-sleep-in-turin-un-esempio-d-uso-dei-raw-data-piemontesi-con-google-refine-e-simile-exhibit/ Where to sleep in Turin: un esempio d’uso dei raw data piemontesi con Google Refine e SIMILE Exhibit]